--- 
wordpress_id: 7
title: I&#8217;m afraid of low level programming.
wordpress_url: http://www.litanyagainstfear.com/blog/2007/11/27/im-afraid-of-low-level-programming/
layout: post
category: code
---
It's running right now. Beneath those fancy windows. Under the hood. Shifting bits. Moving words in memory. And its scares the crap out of me.

<!--more--> Why? It's a facet of human nature: what you don't understand, you're afraid of. But what can a novice programmer do about it? One of the main reasons I chose software engineering as a major is because I don't want to have to think about the lowest level of computing power if I didn't need to. I want to solve problems, help the company I'm at succeed, and enhance my knowledge of the craft.

However, I'm starting to learn that I may need to return to the 'roots' of programming. I'm taking a computer graphics course this semester, and it will be the most C/C++ programming that I've done in a while. Now grant it, I have had other classes where we did assembly and C, but not the entire course.  It just seems to me that in order to really solve a problem efficiently, you should understand some of the underpinnings and inner workings of what you are programming.

So, what's my solution to this? Well, for now, tinker around with C++ and maybe even poke around the <a href="http://gregs-blog.com/2007/11/25/update-quake-2-net-port-with-visual-studio-2008-v90-and-managed-c/" target="_blank">Managed C++ Quake port</a>. Being in the <a href="http://steve-yegge.blogspot.com/2006/03/execution-in-kingdom-of-nouns.html" target="_blank">Kingdom of Nouns</a> ruled by Java and .NET is nice though, and it really does let you focus on the problem at hand. Sometimes though, I wonder if escaping from those magical places allows the programmer to really dive into the task at hand and nail it down. I don't even want to get into some of those esoteric languages that <a href="http://programming.reddit.com" target="_blank">I happen to see way too much about</a>.

One day I'll get around to reading <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/K_and_R" target="_blank">K &amp; R</a> or <a href="http://www.amazon.com/CIL-Programming-Under-Hood-NET/dp/1590590414" target="_blank">CIL Under the Hood</a>, but until then...Are there any other ways to dispel this fear? Let me know what you've done to get over it.
