---
layout: static
title: about
---

Welcome to the blog of Nick Quaranto! This is where I hope I can share a bit of my life with some added spice on my little corner of the internet. <a href="http://litanyagainstfear.com/contact">Want to get a hold of me?</a>

Here's a few somewhat unknown facts about me, in the spirit of other bloggers:
* I was born on a Friday the 13th.
* I'm not afraid to walk under ladders.
* I hate it when shoes are left on a table.
* I also have a burning need to exit and enter out of one door, due to family superstition.
* I'm a huge Rush fan.
* I listen to classic rock, be it Led Zeppelin, Bob Seger, The Guess Who, etc.
* I only respect a few bands from the 90s on, namely Third Eye Blind and the Goo Goo Dolls.
* More recently, The Killers and Paramore.
* I had over 70 days of /played on World of Warcraft.
* I deleted all of my WoW characters, for good.
* I tend to get addicted to social media sites very quickly.
* My favorite food is a milkshake. No whip cream, please.
* My favorite color is blue.
* I love video games, but I hate PlayStation.
* I have fun programming.
* I must drink milk from a glass, no plastic.
* I tend to lose things all too much.
* Most important of which was a camera with over 900 pictures while in Rome.
* I need to go back to Italy.
* I have a serious weakness for Gnocchi.
* I wore a shirt and tie from 5th to 12th grade.
* I'm an extremely good NetHack player.
* I've ascended in Nethack 4 times and counting.
* I'm a Catholic, and proud of it.
* I tend to read too many webcomics online.
* I own Dilbert: The Board Game and play it often.
* I really appreciate you reading this list. :)

That's all I can think of for now, and more than enough for someone to steal my identity. If you need anything else, don't hesitate to <a href="http://www.twitter.com/qrush">tweet me.</a>

Oh yeah, what is the <a href="http://alcoman.railfan.net/fear.html">Litany Against Fear</a>? It's from the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dune_(novel)">Dune novels by Frank Herbert</a>:

p=. *I must not fear.
Fear is the mind-killer.
Fear is the little-death that brings total obliteration.
I will face my fear.
I will permit it to pass over me and through me.
And when it has gone past I will turn the inner eye to see its path.
Where the fear has gone there will be nothing.
Only I will remain.*
