---
title: The Rails Module (in Rails 3)
layout: post
author: Nick Quaranto
---

So, you may have noticed this in the "Rails 3 Changelog":http://guides.rails.info/3_0_release_notes.html...

<blockquote>
Railties now deprecates:

@RAILS_ROOT@ in favour of @Rails.root@,
@RAILS_ENV@ in favour of @Rails.env@, and
@RAILS_DEFAULT_LOGGER@ in favour of @Rails.logger@.
</blockquote>

Great...but why? Better alternatives have existed for a while in Rails core (some since 2.1.0), and it's about damn time you start using them properly. There's also some other helpful methods on the @Rails@ module we'll explore in this post.

h2. Rails.root

This is a big one. Every Rails developer has done @File.join(RAILS_ROOT, "path", "to", "something")@ before. Stop that. And don't just replace @RAILS_ROOT@ with @Rails.root@ either. @Rails.root@ is a "Pathname":http://ruby-doc.org/stdlib/libdoc/pathname/rdoc/index.html, which means you can do cool stuff like this:

<pre><code>$ rails console
>> Rails.root
=> #<Pathname:/Users/qrush/Dev/ruby/new_app>

>> Rails.root.join("config", "database.yml")
=> #<Pathname:/Users/qrush/Dev/ruby/new_app/config/database.yml>

>> _.read
=> "development:\n ...
</pre></code>

h2. Rails.env

Same deal, you've probably done something like @if RAILS_ENV == "production"@ in your Rails apps. Stop that too. Oh, you thought this would just be a @String@?

<pre><code>$ rails console
>> Rails.env
=> "development"

>> Rails.env.class
=> ActiveSupport::StringInquirer
</code></pre>

"Whaaaat?":http://www.hulu.com/watch/124915/family-guy-back-to-jail#s-p1-sr-i1 Actually, this is a really neat utility. From @activesupport/lib/active_support/string_inquirer.rb@:

{% highlight ruby %}
module ActiveSupport
  class StringInquirer < String
    def method_missing(method_name, *arguments)
      if method_name.to_s[-1,1] == "?"
        self == method_name.to_s[0..-2]
      else
        super
      end
    end
  end
end
{% endhighlight %}

Awesome. This lets us do stuff like this in "Gemcutter":http://github.com/qrush/gemcutter:

{% highlight ruby %}
if Rails.env.development? || Rails.env.test?
  include Vault::FS
else
  include Vault::S3
end
{% endhighlight %}

h2. Rails.logger

This is your favorite @Logger@ class, just now without an annoying constant name of @RAILS_DEFAULT_LOGGER@. Much easier to remember.

<pre><code>$ rails console
>> Rails.logger
=> #<ActiveSupport::BufferedLogger:0x21de384 ...

>> Rails.logger.info "zomg!"
=> "zomg!\n"

>> File.read("log/development.log")
=> "zomg!\n"
</code></pre>

h2. Rails.public_path

A helpful shortcut to what your @public@ assets directory is called, probably to use with @Rails.root@. (Why this isn't a @Pathname@ is beyond me, sounds like a good patch to whip up!)

<pre><code>$ rails console
>> Rails.public_path
=> "public"
</code></pre>

h2. Rails.cache

Now the rabbit hole goes deeper. This is a unified interface to memory/file/you name it caching stores that can be used with Rails. If you've ever made some sort of caching global variable, like @$memcache@ or @CACHE@, you should "read up here.":http://guides.rubyonrails.org/caching_with_rails.html

<pre><code>$ rails console
>> Rails.cache
=> #<ActiveSupport::Cache::MemoryStore:0x21e04b8 @data={}>

>> Rails.cache.write("rush", "limelight")
=> "limelight"

>> Rails.cache.read("rush")
=> "limelight"

>> Rails.cache
=> #<ActiveSupport::Cache::MemoryStore:0x21e04b8
     @data={"rush"=>"limelight"}>
</code></pre>

h2. Rails.application

The new @Rails::Application@ class encapsulates *a lot* of what was thrown around in Railties in previous releases of Rails, and really represents the ultimate embracing of Rack's modularity. "Yehuda's post":http://www.engineyard.com/blog/2010/rails-and-merb-merge-rails-core-part-4-of-6/ can explain it further, but the important thing is now you can run multiple @Rails::Application@s in the same process if you need to, and it's promoting decoupling even further by starting from the inside of the framework. Awesome.

<pre><code>$ rails console
>> Rails.application
=> #<NewApp::Application:0x13896b0 ...

>> Rails.application.routes
=> #<ActionDispatch::Routing::RouteSet:0x162877c ...

>> Rails.application.routes.recognize_path("rails/info/properties")
=> {:controller=>"rails/info", :action=>"properties"}
</code></pre>

h2. Rails.configuration

This gives you global access to all of the configuration data set up in your @config/application.rb@ and various @config/environments/#{Rails.env}.rb@ files, if you should ever need it.

<pre><code>$ rails console
>> Rails.configuration
=> #<Rails::Application::Configuration:0x7e1ab0 ...

>> pp Rails.configuration.middleware
[ActionDispatch::Static,
 Rack::Lock,
 Rack::Runtime,
 Rails::Rack::Logger,
 ActionDispatch::ShowExceptions,
 ActionDispatch::Callbacks,
 ActionDispatch::Cookies,
 ActionDispatch::Session::CookieStore,
 ActionDispatch::Flash,
 ActionDispatch::Cascade,
 ActionDispatch::ParamsParser,
 Rack::MethodOverride,
 ActionDispatch::Head,
 ActiveRecord::ConnectionAdapters::ConnectionManagement,
 ActiveRecord::QueryCache]
=> nil
</code></pre>

h2. Wrapup

I'm sure some are missing here (like @Rails.version@), but these are the ones that I think matter most to Rails developers. If something else should be covered here, let me know!
