--- 
wordpress_id: 15
title: 5 Things That Video Games Do That Really Make Me Angry
wordpress_url: http://www.litanyagainstfear.com/blog/2008/03/13/5-things-that-video-games-do-that-really-make-me-angry/
layout: post
category: gaming
---

I’m sure that this list could be a lot longer, but I’m going to focus on
six issues that really piss me off when I’m playing video games. If
games happen to have more than 2 or 3 of these traits they tend to
collect dust in my game cases very quickly, or they will do the same at
your local game store. So, without further adieu:

**Not being able to skip cut scenes**

Sometimes, gamers just want to jump into the action. Yes, I know that
designers have spent grueling hours working in their wonderful plot into
the game, and skipping cut scenes may mean that the gamer will miss out
on crucial story elements and possibly even essential game hints. Well,
that’s just too bad, and sometimes I don’t mind taking that kind of
chance. Perhaps I just need to vent a bit by blowing up some aliens or
lighting a few people on fire. Another gripe I have with this is that
some games don’t make the option apparent if it is available at all
during a cut scene. Please make them optional. I beg you. One game I
played recently that either I couldn’t skip or couldn’t figure out how
to skip was Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. It’s now collecting dust in my
cd case.

**Bad artificial intelligence**

This one is probably hated by most gamers, and we’ve all seen it. The AI
runs enemy monsters or units into a wall, they can’t figure out how to
path correctly to follow you, or perhaps the designer of the game just
didn’t test the AI in the way that you think it should work. Well, it
pretty much sucks when this happens. Rarely though is it a reason to
stop playing a game, but when the AI is good it’s easy to tell, and in
some cases it’s actually frightening.

**Hard to use menus**

This is a killer when you’re trying to get things done fast. One might
think that this kind of behavior is a no brainer and should be somewhat
of an industry standard by now, but sometimes game designers absolutely
fail at the 2D portions of the UI. One example I love is simple and
definitely proven are any of Valve’s game menus. They are somewhat of a
convention in Valve’s games and they present easy options first for
beginner users while also allowing more experienced users to easily whip
through menu choices. Crappy menus and other UI options are very easy to
spot. One of the worse things you can do is slow down a user as they’re
going through the menus. Warcraft 3 does this with the stupid chain menu
system, which I’ve grown to loathe. Sometimes games can fail completely
in both usability and readability, the biggest example of this I can
think of is Dead Rising. I couldn’t even read the menus since the text
was horrible and it was laid out poorly. Ugh.

**Collect-a-thons**

When I was 10, I used be able to stand running around various platformer
worlds gathering every last bit that games could offer me. Hell, I even
got 101% in Donkey Kong 64, but I wasn’t hardcore enough to get all the
stars in Super Mario 64 or all of the golden skulltulas in Ocarina of
Time. Now however, I absolutely can’t stand it. Games can get by without
them just fine, but for some reason developers continue to inject these
endless quests. World of Warcraft could even be considered one giant
collect-a-thon. I guess that this mentality appeals to some gamers, but
I’m over it. And yes, I did beat Super Mario Galaxy, just with the
minimum amount of stars.

**Voice chat**

Ah, the bane and boon of online gaming. I’ve become somewhat jaded to
this miracle of modern technology, and now I’m absolutely sick of it. If
I’m playing an FPS, I’m there to snipe someone’s head off or lay a trap
to waste them with, and not to listen how their day went or who in pop
culture is ridiculously hot and said nerd doesn’t have a chance with. I
don’t want to hear about how someone is cheating, hacking, or just being
a bag of douche in the game. Get over yourself, and shut up. One of the
first things I’ll do with games that have voice chat embedded is turn it
off immediately. I’d rather leave voice chat to external programs that
can be dedicated to the sole purpose of transmitting voice instead of
having to build all of that extra functionality into the game.

What things tick you off about video games? I’m sure there’s irksome
moments that occur on a daily basis for any gamer, and here’s your
chance to rant about it.
