--- 
wordpress_id: 389
title: If you only could follow 10 people on Twitter...
wordpress_url: http://litanyagainstfear.com/?p=389
layout: post
category: internet
---
...who would they be? I'm following a staggering number of people (1,337 to be exact), and the signal vs. noise ratio is just getting out of control. I'm not sure how I got into this situation: I just started following everyone that followed me, and it spun out of control. I see a few options from here:

# Remove everyone and start again.
# Set up groups in TweetDeck and continue to follow a ton of people.
# Slowly whittle away until my following/follower ratio is down to 1:1.

This got me thinking...what if you could only follow 10 people? Who would I follow and why? I present my list, and I encourage you to think of your own.

# <a href="http://twitter.com/ablissfulgal">ablissfulgal</a>: My girlfriend. I don't need to explain this one.
# <a href="http://twitter.com/mittense">mittense</a>: Former coworker from Stardock who plays way too many video games.
# <a href="http://twitter.com/GarrettAtreides">GarrettAtreides</a>: Classmate at RIT, MS lover, and all around goofy dude.
# <a href="http://twitter.com/AmazingSyco">AmazingSyco</a>: Classmate at RIT, Cocoa hacker, and all around funny dude.
# <a href="http://twitter.com/chorn">chorn</a>: Local Ruby fan that's a riot. Supposedly he's a CTO too.
# <a href="http://twitter.com/BreakingNewsOn">BreakingNewsOn</a>: For those who prefer their news in ALL CAPS.
# <a href="http://twitter.com/defunkt">defunkt</a>: One of the GitHubbers and an awesome Rubyist.
# <a href="http://twitter.com/faithfulgeek">faithfulgeek</a>: Convert to the Ruby/OSX world from Microsoft. I'm going through the same transition.
# <a href="http://twitter.com/nakajima">nakajima</a>: Ruby ninja who's a code machine. And he's hilarious.
# <a href="http://twitter.com/guykawasaki">guykawasaki</a>: Entrepreneur extraordinaire. I'm listed on his site as a Twitterati too.

To those who didn't make the cut, don't feel bad! It's not that I don't want to communicate with you, just most likely I can communicate easier through a different channel (IRC, IM, what have you).

Who would you follow? Let me know in the comments or make your own blog post!
