--- 
title: BarCamp Boston 4 Roundup
layout: post
category: internet
---

BarCamp Boston 4 has been a lot of fun. This post is just a roundup of
the talks I went to on Sunday. I gave a talk about [getting started with
git](http://drop.io/gitstarted), which seems to have went well.

I’ve never been to MIT before, and I need to come back and explore the
campus more. It was held in the MIT Strata center, which is absolutely
ridiculous. The architecture is really just unreal. Also, I can’t
believe how much pizza a few hundred nerds can down in a manner of
minutes.

One of the neatest things was that a project was being run in the
hallway with a [Wiffiti](http://wiffiti.com) stream of the tweets,
pictures, and more that was going on:

<object type="application/x-shockwave-flash" data="http://flash.alpha.locamoda.com/wiffiti.com/cloud/cataclysm.swf?&loca=loca6848&total=4&tags=%23bcb4,bcb4,%21barcampboston,@loca6848&twitter=1&flickr=1&locamoda=1&background=http://locamoda-staging.s3.amazonaws.com/wiffiti_cloud_assets/173/bcamp-logo.png" height="460" width="500"><param name="movie" value="http://flash.alpha.locamoda.com/wiffiti.com/cloud/cataclysm.swf?&loca=loca6848&total=4&tags=%23bcb4,bcb4,%21barcampboston,@loca6848&twitter=1&flickr=1&locamoda=1&background=http://locamoda-staging.s3.amazonaws.com/wiffiti_cloud_assets/173/bcamp-logo.png"/><param name="allowFullScreen" value="true"></object>

Here’s the talks I went to and what I got out of them. You can see the
[full schedule
here](http://wiki.barcampboston.org/index.php?title=2009_Schedule).

**how to be a freelancer**

The person giving this talk wanted to hit like 8 points, but I think he
only got to 3. What ensued was plenty of discussion on how to deal with
clients, how to ditch them, and problems that come up with freelancing
in general. The general gist I got from it: I’m glad I don’t have to
deal with that.

**Code secrets**

This was a great idea: people in the audience write down horrible, deep,
dark secrets about code they’ve written, and then they’re read off.
Hilarity ensued.

**Starting a Boston startup space**

Sadly I didn’t pay too much attention to this one, but my basic gist was
that it’s a community service, and it’s tough to decide a business model
that works for the people you’re serving. I’ll definitely be utilizing
the local coworking if I end up on the lam as a freelancer or mobile
worker after school is over.

**Fun with QR Codes**

QR codes are really neat, and can do some ridiculous stuff. They’re
really awesome for embedding URLs into the real life, like putting a QR
code near a bus stop that can open a schedule for you. I just wish my
phone didn’t suck so I could actually read them. I do wonder how this
concept would catch on with the general public. What is really funny is
to watch people try to read the QR code on their phones from the screen.

**JavaScript Testing Discussion**

Lots of gripes about the current state of testing JS in the browser.
There’s plenty of ways to DO testing in the browser, but there doesn’t
seem to be a be-all, end-all solution. Listing out various testing
frameworks, but there doesn’t seem to be many familiar with most of
them. Complaints, bitching and moaning about how difficult this
situation is. It all boils down to not being able to remove the human
element from testing it correctly.

**Ruby Testing Panel**

Seems to be a general discussion of what’s going on in the Ruby testing
world and reactions that people have. Starting off with a rant or
reasons why to Test First. Diving into some differences between RSpec
and Shoulda and their syntax differences. Some talk about mocking and
stubbing and the different libraries. This discussion went for an hour
but I skipped out early to make the next talk.

**Introduction to the Arduino**

Should be easy to translate software development experience into the
microcontroller world. Throwing some around the room so we can get a
look at what they are. Huge advantage: the bootloader. All you need is a
USB cable and you can load code on it. There’s ways to get around it or
write your own too. Ridiculously neat demo: the arduino spins a platter
with a thin slot that has LEDs beneath it. There’s a lens at the top of
the platter that the arduino can hook into, and control the speed of how
fast the platter will go. Lots of C code and magic registers that you
need data sheets for. I wonder if the Ruby library abstracts any of this
away. Data sheets just seem scary, but useful.

**LOLCODE 101**

This isn’t 100% serious, but for some reason somebody made a programming
language around this meme. I would post some code but pygments doesn’t
support the language. Best part of the language: DIAF is exiting with a
status code.
