---
title: RailsCamp NE Adventures
layout: post
---

The concept is simple: Get a bunch of developers together for a weekend
away from the internet and most of civilization to have fun and relax.
To be honest, I didn’t get to relax much, but it was made up in spades
just by how awesome the event was.

"

<p style="text-align:center;">

<img style="padding:5px; background: #fff" src="http://railscamps.com/images/yield.png" />

</p>

":http://railscamps.com

The venue was the [Maine MountainView
House](http://www.themainehouses.com/mountain_house/mountain_house.php)
in [Bryant Pond,
ME](http://maps.google.com/maps?q=bryant+pond,+me&oe=utf-8&rls=com.ubuntu:en-US:unofficial&client=firefox-a&um=1&ie=UTF-8&split=0&gl=us&ei=42BkSrOdNYXeNbClrPcB&sa=X&oi=geocode_result&ct=title&resnum=1)
I’m sure others will post better pictures soon, but the pond itself was
beautiful. A dock, fire pit, and plenty of chairs made for some fun
smore-making and
[werewolf](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mafia_(party_game)) games. The
house was huge and definitely stood up to nearly 30 developers’ antics
throughout the weekend.

The event itself was slightly organized, which was just perfect: catered
lunch and dinner, and plenty of social hacking. Each day had a few talks
showing off fun projects and interesting problems. Topics included
covered [internationalization with
gettext](http://www.yotabanana.com/hiki/ruby-gettext-howto-rails.html),
[CouchDB](http://couchdb.apache.org), the [Rails
Rumble](http://railsrumble.com), [rdoc.info](http://rdoc.info),
[RadiantCMS](http://radiantcms.org), and plenty more I’m probably
missing. [I showed off](http://img39.yfrog.com/i/kaed.jpg/)
[Gemcutter](http://gemcutter.org) and got plenty of awesome feedback and
ideas for the site.

As for hacking, it was an interesting mix of people and skill levels.
Quite a few developers were there mostly to observe what others were
using for tools and to understand how they work. I loved showing off
Cucumber and I definitely heard the good word of
[TATFT](http://rubyhoedown2008.confreaks.com/05-bryan-liles-lightning-talk-tatft-test-all-the-f-in-time.html)
being preached. I wish I could have watched a little more, but I was
having too much fun coding away.

My adventure went something like this: The start of Saturday got a few
people talking about ideas to hack on, and perhaps a project the group
could work on together. [Nick Plante](http://zerosum.org) mentioned
games via Twitter, and that eventually lead to implementing
[DopeWars](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dope_Wars). From there, some
went outside on the porch to sketch out how the app would work, and we
then wrote some basic user stories. It ended up that
[Jason](http://jayunit.net) and I banged out a quick prototype in
Sinatra and got something decently working. On Sunday, amongst
recovering from some late night [Urban
Terror](http://www.urbanterror.net/news.php), I hacked with some others
on searching gems via Gemcutter’s web interface.

If there’s a [RailsCamp](http://railscamps.com) going on even remotely
close to you, do everything you can to get there. It was more hands on
than RailsConf, and the amount of networking and fun being had was
multiplied. I’d just like to say thanks to the organizers, [Pat
Allan](http://freelancing-god.com) and [Brian
Cardarella](http://cardarella.blogspot.com/), for working hard to put on
a great time for all. I’d love to help organize a RailsCamp in the
future, perhaps since I’m returning to Rochester soon it could include
the Great Lakes region and bring in hackers from NY, PA, OH, MI, and
more. (If you’re interested too, leave a comment!)
